	Placed in the public domain in 2006 by the TeX Users Group.

================================================================
      Using The Y&Y TeX System in Network Environments
================================================================

All components of the Y&Y TeX System should function properly in a
network environment if set up correctly. These notes describe some of
the considerations involved. We focus on Novell networks, which
constitute the bulk of the installations in use today. Many of the
considerations described, however, should apply equally well to other
network environments.

Many of the network installation decisions that arise with regard
to the Y&Y TeX System depend on two factors: (1) how Windows and
other system-level software (including fonts) are configured in
your network environment, and (2) how applications (including
Y&Y's software) are set up to run in that environment.


                Windows and Other System Software

A networked Windows environment can have one of three
configurations:

 *  Windows is installed on each workstation precisely as it
    would be if that workstation were running stand-alone. That
    is, all Windows executables, drivers, dynamic link libraries
    (DLLs), etc reside under c:\windows and c:\windows\system (or
    an equivalent directory structure), and all Windows
    customization files (win.ini, system.ini, program group
    files, etc) reside in c:\windows.

 *  The Windows executables, drivers, etc reside in a shared
    directory on a network drive, but each user's Windows
    customization files reside under c:\windows or another
    directory on the workstation.

 *  The Windows executables, drivers, etc reside in a shared
    network directory, and each user's Windows customization
    files reside in a network directory private to that user.

The first approach is usually the most efficient with regard to
file-server disk storage requirements and network traffic.
However, it requires dedicating a significant amount of
workstation disk space to Windows files, and it can present
problems with regard to centralized workstation administration.
In addition, if *applications* reside on the file server anyway,
some of the network-traffic efficiency gained by keeping the
Windows executables local is lost. (The applications' executable
code actually runs on the workstation, and thus must be
downloaded to that machine when first invoked.)

The second approach allows easier centralized updating of the
Windows core files, and it requires less dedicated workstation
disk space than the first. It also permits the use of network-
based security: only users with the appropriate network rights
can run Windows. However, centralized administration of the local
customization files can still be a problem.

The third approach requires the least amount of local disk space
and has most of the other advantages of the second with regard to
security and administration. However, this method gives rise to
the greatest amount of network traffic---sometimes a problem in
environments with large numbers of users.

A further consideration is what type of Windows swap file (if
any) the user has, and where that file resides. A permanent swap
file *must* reside on the user's local hard disk, in an
uncompressed volume. A temporary swap file can reside either on
the local hard disk or on a network drive; if the latter, its
size must be controlled via the MaxPagingFileSize entry in the
user's system.ini file. The standard recommendation is to place
each user's swap file on the user's local hard drive---no matter
which of the three Windows installation configurations you
choose.

A final consideration with special implications for Y&Y's
software centers on where certain system software---specifically,
fonts---is installed in the network environment.

Windows' *system* fonts---ie, its required screen fonts, and the
TrueType fonts that are part of its basic installation (Ariel,
WingDings, etc)---reside by default in the \windows\system
directory. As noted above, that directory can in turn reside
either locally or on a network drive, depending on the type of
Windows installation chosen.

However, any *add-in* Type 1 (PostScript) fonts can reside either
locally or on a network drive---and their location does not
depend on the type of Windows installation in use.

Typically, these fonts are managed via the Adobe Type Manager
(ATM) Control Panel. (Certain third-party font managers, such as
Ares Software's Fontminder, are often used to replace the
functions of that Control Panel---but *not* the underlying ATM
driver. Except for consideration of the actual ATM Control Panel
executable, the following discussion applies even if the ATM
Control Panel is not the primary Type 1 font manager in use.)

The ATM Control Panel executable, the ATM driver and the ATM DLLs
all reside under \windows and \windows\system---wherever those
directories are located (local or network drive). When
"installing" Type 1 fonts via the ATM Control Panel, however,
users can "point to" fonts installed on a network drive, and (at
least in ATM version 3.0 and above) can add those fonts to their
systems *without* actually copying the fonts'.pfb and .pfm files
to the "target" directories designated in the Control Panel.

The act of "installing" fonts in this manner alters the atm.ini
file, which also resides under \windows---again, wherever that
directory is located (local or network drive).

If the system administrator has decided that add-in Type 1 fonts
should reside on a network drive rather than on each user's
workstation (a good decision, in our opinion), the administrator
will want to make sure that two conditions are met, for
efficiency's sake:

 *  The path to the fonts' network location should be as short as
    possible---a provision that keeps the atm.ini file as small
    as possible. To achieve this condition, the .pfm files can be
    placed in the same network directory as the .pfb files, and
    that directory can then be mapped to a logical drive. In the
    Novell environment, for example, the directory could be
              SYS1:OBJ/FNT/TYPE1/ADOBE
    or whatever other structure the administration considerations
    dictate to be necessary. This directory would then be
    assigned to a "fake root" via the MAP ROOT command; for
    example:
              MAP ROOT J:=SYS1:OBJ/FNT/TYPE1/ADOBE
    As far as the users are then concerned, all Type 1 fonts
    reside in j:\ and are "installed" from that "drive," via the
    ATM Control Panel; all paths recorded in atm.ini appear in
    the form j:\...

 *  The users should be granted read-only access to the network
    font directory, via the appropriate security commands. Under
    Novell 3.x, the appropriate group rights are Read and File
    Scan (RF).


                      Applications Software

Applications in a networked environment, like Windows itself, can
reside in a shared network directory, locally on the user's
workstation, or in a combination of the two locations. The
configuration chosen depends on many of the same considerations
governing a networked Windows installation---available disk
storage, network traffic, centralized administration
requirements, etc. Furthermore, if conditions warrant, all
applications need not be treated identically---some may reside
locally while others are network resident.

One potential setup (certainly not the only one or even the most
efficient in all circumstances) makes all applications network
resident. It relies on a directory structure such as
               SYS1:OBJ/APPS
with directories d1, d2,..., dn under APPS for each network-
resident application. Users are granted Read and File Scan rights
to SYS1:OBJ/APPS (and thus to all directories under it), and a
"fake root" is assigned as follows:
               MAP ROOT K:=SYS1:OBJ/APPS
From the user's point of view, the applications then reside in
k:\d1, k:\d2, ... k:\dn.

For this scheme to work, each application set up in this manner
must be able to point to an installer-specifiable location for
its .ini file and any other user-customizable data. That is, it
must be "smart" enough *not* to look for its .ini file only in
the same directory as its shared executable files. Fortunately,
most of today's applications meet this requirement.


                Specifics for the Y&Y TeX System

Based on the foregoing discussion, you can see that Y&Y's
software should operate without problems in a networked
environment, whether it is installed "stand-alone" on each user's
workstation or "centrally" in a shared directory. Following are
some factors to consider when installing the software in the
latter manner.

Probably the most efficient way to achieve a shared-directory
network installation starts with the system administrator
performing the install on his/her machine, having first acquired
the same logical drive mappings as the users will have. That is,
during this installation the only difference between the
administrator and a typical user should be that the adminstrator
has Write access to the directories on the network drive where
the applications are to be installed.

Assume, for example, that drive j:\ is mapped (via MAP ROOT) to
SYS1:OBJ/FNT/TYPE1/ADOBE and drive k:\ to SYS1:OBJ/APPS. The
system manager, following the standard Y&Y installation process,
would install Y&Y TeX to k:\yandytex, DVIPSONE to k:\dvipsone,
DVIWindo to k:\dviwindo, etc. The installation would create a
dviwindo.ini file and a Y&Y program group (yy.grp) in the
administrator's \windows directory (wherever that directory
resides), and would alter his/her Program Manager file
(progman.ini), also resident in \windows.

At this point, variations in customization requirements grow too
numerous to permit a great deal of general discussion. However,
the basic procedures for finishing the installation would include
the following steps:

 1.  Manually edit dviwindo.ini, double-checking that all
     variables in the [Environment] section refer to the network
     drives and paths that each user will actually see. For
     example, TEXFONTS (the location of TeX's font metric files)
     would probably point to k:\yandytex\tfm and k:\dviwindo\tfm,
     PSFONTS (the location of the Type 1 fonts) to j:\, and so
     on.

 2.  Give special consideration to the dviwindo.ini entry for
     TEXINPUTS (location of TeX source files). Will each user be
     creating his/her TeX source files in a private network
     directory? If so, that directory should have a logical map
     of its own, and that map should then appear on the TEXINPUTS
     line. One approach would be to create a directory named TEX
     for each user, under the user's home directory on the
     network (SYS1:USR/%LOGIN_NAME, for example), and then ensure
     that each user maps to his/her home directory as follows
     (usually during login):
               MAP ROOT G:=SYS1/USR/%LOGIN_NAME
     The variable TEXINPUTS can then point to G:\TEX for each
     user. A similar consideration might apply to PSPATH, the
     variable for the location of graphics source files.

 3.  Move a copy of dviwindo.ini to each user's \windows
     directory (local or network resident, depending on the type
     of Windows installation).

 4.  Move the Y&Y program-group file (yy.grp) to a shared network
     directory to which all users have read-only access (for
     example, SYS1:OBJ/PUBUTILS). Flag this file Shareable Read
     Only (important!), then instruct the users how to either add
     this group to their desktops, or to click-drag-copy its
     icons into one of their existing program groups. Note:
     Copying the new version of progman.ini to each user's
     \windows directory would also work, *provided* all users
     have the same display type and exactly the same desktop as
     the system manager---a highly unlikely possibility!

 5.  Make sure that the batch files installed for the various
     programs (tex.bat, dvipsone.bat, initex.bat, etc) reflect
     the appropriate paths for the executables involved, and move
     these batch files to a network directory to which all users
     have read-only access (for example, SYS1:OBJ\PUBUTILS). This
     directory should be one of the network directories in each
     user's "search path" (the "extended" path through which the
     workstation can search for executables and batch files).

 6.  Copy the Type 1 fonts for the installation (.pfb and .pfm
     files) to j:\ and instruct the users how to "install" them
     via the ATM Control Panel without actually copying them to
     their workstations.

 7.  Carefully instruct the users on any additional customization
     required. For example, in addition to placing TeX source
     files in a private network directory, will some users also
     create such files in directories on their local hard drives?
     If so, they should be told how to add the paths to those
     directories to the TEXINPUTS entry of the dviwindo.ini file.

Two final notes:

 *  In some Novell setups, a DOS SET command executed upon login
    directs the user's workstation to subsequently look to a
    network directory (rather than to the workstation) for the
    copy of command.com to be used when spawning copies of the
    DOS environment. (This is a relic of the days when diskless
    workstations were in wide use and required network-resident
    DOS to operate properly.) So far as we know, shelling to DOS
    in this manner should have no adverse effect when users
    invoke Y&Y TeX and/or DVIPSONE from the DVIWindo "TeX
    Menu"---after all, a DOS box is a DOS box! However, if
    problems arise when running either of these two programs and
    if everything else looks OK, try altering the network setup
    so that command.com is invoked from the same directory from
    which the workstation boots (usually c:\ or c:\dos).

 *  In most Novell setups, users execute some form of the CAPTURE
    command, which intercepts printing output intended for, say,
    LPT1: and redirects it to a Novell print queue instead. This
    operation should be transparent both to DVIWindo and to
    DVIPSONE---if they are configured to print to LPT1: and if
    LPT1: is getting captured to a queue, nothing in the setup of
    either program should require changing. There is one
    potential exception to this statement, though: Novell has a
    somewhat elaborate mechanism for querying whether specific
    fonts are printer-resident. If the fonts you use sometimes
    don't seem to make it to the printer, consider configuring
    DVIPSONE to always force downloading of all fonts. Network
    overhead will not appreciably increase by your doing so.

See netprint.txt for information specific to network printing issues.
