Copyright 2007 TeX Users Group.
You may freely use, modify and/or distribute this file.

This document contains some instructions on how to properly install
WinEdt as an editor for use with Y&Y TeX.

WinEdt (shareware) is a powerful TeX oriented editor with syntax
highlighting, built-in spell checker and more. You should read the
file "winedt.txt" for more information on WinEdt and its features.


If you want to try WinEdt please move the files "winedt.zip" and
"YandY.zip" to your base Y&Y TeX directory (c:\YandY). The file
"winedt.zip" contains all the files needed to install WinEdt on
your system. The file is compressed with the standard "pkware".
Unpack this file with preserved directory hierarchy (eg. "pkunzip
-d winedt.zip"). The file YandY.zip contains a configuration
specific to Y&Y TeX. You should unpack this file (eg. "pkunzip -d
YandY.zip") replacing some of the existing files in the default
installation. This allows you to call TeX, LaTeX, BibTeX, DVIPS and
DVIWindo from within WinEdt. You can also quickly compile and
preview selected text from within WinEdt.

To call WinEdt from within DVIWindo you should add this line

  WinEdt|F11=C:\yandy\winedt\winedt.exe @.tex

to DVIWINDO_INI (TeX Menu). If you also want WinEdt to respond to
edit command when TeX encounters errors you should modify the
definition of TEXEDIT in DVIWINO_INI to:

  TEXEDIT=C:\yandy\winedt\winedt.exe  %s -G(1,%d,0) -S(7,+1,0)

If you installed Y&Y TeX to a directory different from "c:\YandY"
you'll have to modify the path specifications in the following
files:

  ...\winedt\edt\bin\*.bat
  ...\winedt\edt\compile\compile.bat


Many dictionaries for WinEdt's spell checker have been contributed
by WinEdt's users and are available on CTAN:

  ftp.dante.de  (Germany)      /tex-archive
  ftp.tex.ac.uk (England)      /tex-archive

     tex-archive/systems/win32/winedt/dict


WinEdt's Y&Y settings contain a definition of Ghost View which is a
freeware (available on CTAN) for previewing postscript files. You
can remove the definition of this Menu Item from WinEdt's Menu and
Tool Bar or else download GSView from CTAN.


Please note that WinEdt is extremely configurable and you can
change the entire contents of its menu, shortcut keys, tool bar
etc... WinEdt's help contains more information on how to do this.


Finally, WinEdt is shareware. Should you decide to use the program
after the trial period of 31 days you'll have to register your copy
of the program. Registration carries a fee of US $40. The file
"winedt.txt" contains more information on the registration
procedure.
