	Placed in the public domain in 2006 by the TeX Users Group.

More problems with `invisible ink' and with repeat encodings:
=============================================================

ATM for Windows cannot handle multiple encodings, that is, one
character name listed under two or more character codes in the
encoding vector (Which is something that works just fine in ATM for
Macintosh, as well as all PS interpreters, and all PS clones).

One aspect of this problem is that a character can only be referenced
using the first mentioned character code in the encoding vector.
Which is a major problem with some fonts, and requires reorganizing
the listing of the encoding vector in the font, as well as rewriting Windows
software to carefully remap character codes to the ones that
ATM happens to like.

But there is a second problem.  If you use one of the character codes
other than the first one, you get `invisible ink'.  The rest of the
text string is blanked out from there on.  That is, this character
code is NOT even linked to /.notdef, which is what one might hope for.

For example, suppose the encoding vector contains the following:

.
.
dup 195 /space put
.
.
dup 32 /space put
.
.

Then you can get a `space' when you use character code 195, and you
don't get a space when you use the space bar.  Bad enough. But worse,
typing `abcdef<space>ghijkl' yields only `abcdef' on screen!

So why use repeated encoding in the first place?
================================================

Most MS Windows (and Macintosh) applications cannot handle character
codes in the `control character' range 0 -- 31. And many existing
fonts have characters in that range. 

To make these fonts useable with MS Windows (and Macintosh)
applications, without disrupting their current users, one can add
repeated encodings, for the `control characters'.  This is, for
example, used with Adobe Lucida Math fonts.  

For use with TeX, these fonts need to have characters in the control
character range.  But these cannot be accessed from most other
applications.  So the control character range is remapped to 161 -
170 and 172 - 195.
