Copyright 2007 TeX Users Group.
You may freely use, modify and/or distribute this file.

		======================================
		The new EM (European Modern) font set:
		======================================

Do you like the Computer Modern typeface style, yet

    (1) need accented characters for proper hyphenation in TeX; and
    (2) need fonts in Adobe Type 1 format (a.k.a. `PostScript' fonts)?
or, (3) need to use fonts with non-TeX applications?

Then the new EM font set is for you.  The EM fonts are `commercial
grade' hand-hinted ATM-compatible fonts in Adobe Type 1 format.  The EM
font set consists of 57 EM text fonts, 13 EM math fonts, and 16 Computer
Modern math fonts.  The EM font set is self-contained and does not need
additional fonts from the CM family. There is nothing else like it!

The EM font set is based on the CM font set, but has many more glyphs.
Each text fonts has 97 ready-made accented characters covering many
European countries.  The fonts have also been augmented with additional
characters to bring them closer to being `normal' text fonts.  In fact,
the main text fonts (roman, italic, bold extended, typewriter) each have
255 glyphs.

There are EM equivalents for all of the standard CM text fonts.  These
have related names, making it easy to convert from CM to EM.  EM has the
same `optical scaling' as CM (i.e. different design sizes are treated as
separate fonts - yet each is scalable).

The EM font is also for people using applications other than TeX, since
the EM text fonts are set up as normal text fonts (including a `space'
character!), hence have a familiar layout, unlike the CM text fonts with
their own unusual non-ASCII layout.  The EM text fonts do not suffer
from the sparse glyph coverage of the CM text fonts.  The EM text fonts
will also be reencoded to platform-specific text font encoding on
whatever platform they are installed, and are subject to `on the fly'
reencoding in the Y&Y TeX System - unlike the CM fonts, which, because
of their fixed hard-wired encoding, cannot be treated as real `text' fonts.

Support for the EM fonts is available for plain TeX (and its
derivatives), LaTeX 2.09, as well as LaTeX 2e.
