Copyright 2007 TeX Users Group.
You may freely use, modify and/or distribute this file.

These fonts are freely available now and included in the free
distributions.  I am not sure if there are improvements (hints?) in
these Y&Y versions and the free versions that could be integrated back.
I hope someone will investigate.  Also, perhaps the pfm files could be
useful somehow.

I am not sure what the *.{hex,hnt,log,out} files are all about in */src;
presumably files created in the hint generation process.  I left them in
for whatever they may be worth for archeological purposes.

amsfonts/ contain Type 1 versions of, of course, the AMS fonts, including
Euler, msam and msbm, and Washington Cyrillic.

cmbsr/ contains Type 1 versions of the Computer Modern font set, with a
few extras over the original 75 fonts.

em/ contains the European Modern fonts developed by Y&Y and others.  I
do not know whether they contain any glyphs not in Latin Modern, or have
other improvements that could be adapted.

latxfont/ contains Type 1 versions of the LaTeX symbol, line, and circle
fonts, as well as the SLiTeX fonts.  Also msym10, a font with a few
blackboard bold characters.

I did not attempt to change the copyright notices contained within the
font files, since it would have been an extremely time-consuming
process, but any "All rights reserved" or similar restrictive statements
there are no longer in effect.  If a new distribution is prepared using
them, the notices should be changed.

Blue Sky, Y&Y, and the AMS released the AMS and Computer Modern fonts
long ago under free software terms.  To whatever extent that Y&Y had any
remaining proprietary improvements in the fonts as they are included
here, they have been assigned to TUG, and TUG hereby releases them as
free software, under the one-sentence all-permissive license (to avoid
license compatibility problems):
  You may freely use, modify and/or distribute the material here.

Any complete fonts given here which have not previously been released
(I'm not sure if there are any) are also hereby released under that
all-permissive license.

Karl Berry (karl@tug.org)
http://tug.org/yandy/
